Alerting: Update RBAC documentation with information about alerting (#47858)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/enterprise/access-control/fine-grained-access-control-references.md

| `fixed:annotations.dashboard:writer`   | `annotations:write` <br>`annotations.create`<br> `annotations:delete` for scope `annotations:type:dashboard`                                                                                                                                                             | Create, update and delete dashboard annotations and annotation tags.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `fixed:annotations:writer`             | `annotations:write` <br>`annotations.create`<br> `annotations:delete` for scope `annotations:type:*`                                                                                                                                                                     | Create, update and delete all annotations and annotation tags.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |

> | `fixed:alerting.rules:reader`          | `alert.rule:read` for scope `folders:*` <br> `alert.rules.external:read` for scope `datasources:*`                                                                                                                                                                       | Read all* Grafana as well as all Mimir and Loki alert rules                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `fixed:alerting.rules:reader`          | `alert.rule:read` for scope `folders:*` <br> `alert.rules.external:read` for scope `datasources:*`                                                                                                                                                                       | * Read all Grafana, Mimir, and Loki alert rules                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |   
```

> | `fixed:alerting.rules:reader`          | `alert.rule:read` for scope `folders:*` <br> `alert.rules.external:read` for scope `datasources:*`                                                                                                                                                                       | Read all* Grafana as well as all Mimir and Loki alert rules                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `fixed:alerting.rules:reader`          | `alert.rule:read` for scope `folders:*` <br> `alert.rules.external:read` for scope `datasources:*`                                                                                                                                                                       | Read all* Grafana, Mimir, and Loki alert rules                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |   
```

> | `fixed:alerting.rules:editor`          | All permissions from `fixed:alerting.rules:reader` and <br> `alert.rule:create` <br> `alert.rule:update` <br> `alert.rule:delete` for scope `folders:*` <br> `alert.rules.external:write` for scope `datasources:*`                                                      | Create, update and delete all* Grafana, Mimir and Loki alert rules.                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `fixed:alerting.rules:editor`          | All permissions from `fixed:alerting.rules:reader` and <br> `alert.rule:create` <br> `alert.rule:update` <br> `alert.rule:delete` for scope `folders:*` <br> `alert.rules.external:write` for scope `datasources:*`                                                      | Create, update, and delete all* Grafana, Mimir, and Loki alert rules.                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
```

> | `fixed:alerting.instances:reader`      | `alert.instances:read` for organization scope <br> `alert.instances.external:read` for scope `datasources:*`                                                                                                                                                             | Read all alerts and silences in the organization produced by Grafana Alerts as well as Mimir and Loki alerts and silences.                                                                                                                                                            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `fixed:alerting.instances:reader`      | `alert.instances:read` for organization scope <br> `alert.instances.external:read` for scope `datasources:*`                                                                                                                                                             | Read all alerts and silences in the organization produced by Grafana Alerts and Mimir and Loki alerts and silences.                                                                                                                                                            |
```

> | `fixed:alerting.instances:editor`      | All permissions from `fixed:alerting.instances:reader` and<br> `alert.instances:create`<br>`alert.instances:update` for organization scope <br> `alert.instances.external:write` for scope `datasources:*`                                                               | Create, update and expire all silences in the organization produced by Grafana, Mimir and Loki.                                                                                                                                                                                       | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `fixed:alerting.instances:editor`      | All permissions from `fixed:alerting.instances:reader` and<br> `alert.instances:create`<br>`alert.instances:update` for organization scope <br> `alert.instances.external:write` for scope `datasources:*`                                                               | Create, update and expire all silences in the organization produced by Grafana, Mimir, and Loki.                                                                                                                                                                                       | 
```

> | `fixed:alerting.notifications:reader`  | `alert.notifications:read` for organization scope<br>`alert.notifications.external:read` for scope `datasources:*`                                                                                                                                                       | Read all Grafana and Alertmanager contact points, templates and notification policies.                                                                                                                                                                                                |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `fixed:alerting.notifications:reader`  | `alert.notifications:read` for organization scope<br>`alert.notifications.external:read` for scope `datasources:*`                                                                                                                                                       | Read all Grafana and Alertmanager contact points, templates, and notification policies.                                                                                                                                                                                                |
```

> | `fixed:alerting.notifications:editor`  | All permissions from `fixed:alerting.notifications:reader` and<br>`alert.notifications:create`<br>`alert.notifications:update`<br>`alert.notifications:delete` for organization scope<br>`alert.notifications.external:read` for scope `datasources:*`                   | Create, update and delete contact points, templates, mute timings and notification policies for Grafana and external Alertmanager.                                                                                                                                                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `fixed:alerting.notifications:editor`  | All permissions from `fixed:alerting.notifications:reader` and<br>`alert.notifications:create`<br>`alert.notifications:update`<br>`alert.notifications:delete` for organization scope<br>`alert.notifications.external:read` for scope `datasources:*`                   | Create, update, and delete contact points, templates, mute timings and notification policies for Grafana and external Alertmanager.                                                                                                                                                    |
```

> | `fixed:alerting:reader`                | All permissions from `fixed:alerting.rules:reader` <br>`fixed:alerting.instances:reader`<br>`fixed:alerting.notifications:reader`                                                                                                                                        | Read-only permissions for all Grafana, Mimir, Loki and Alertmanager alert rules*, alerts, contact points and notification policies.                                                                                                                                                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `fixed:alerting:reader`                | All permissions from `fixed:alerting.rules:reader` <br>`fixed:alerting.instances:reader`<br>`fixed:alerting.notifications:reader`                                                                                                                                        | Read-only permissions for all Grafana, Mimir, Loki and Alertmanager alert rules*, alerts, contact points, and notification policies.                                                                                                                                                   |
```

> | `fixed:alerting:editor`                | All permissions from `fixed:alerting.rules:editor` <br>`fixed:alerting.instances:editor`<br>`fixed:alerting.notifications:editor`                                                                                                                                        | Create, update and delete Grafana, Mimir, Loki and Alertmanager alert rules*, silences, contact points, templates, mute timings and notification policies.                                                                                                                            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `fixed:alerting:editor`                | All permissions from `fixed:alerting.rules:editor` <br>`fixed:alerting.instances:editor`<br>`fixed:alerting.notifications:editor`                                                                                                                                        | Create, update, and delete Grafana, Mimir, Loki and Alertmanager alert rules*, silences, contact points, templates, mute timings, and notification policies.                                                                                                                            |
```

> > `*`  Access to Grafana alert rules is an intersection of many permissions: permissions to read a folder `folders:read`, permissions to manage alerts `alert.rules:[crud]`, permission to query **all** data sources that the rule uses `datasources:query`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> `*`  Access to Grafana alert rules is an intersection of many permissions: permissions to read a folder `folders:read`, permissions to manage alerts `alert.rules:[crud]`, and permissions to query **all** data sources that the rule uses `datasources:query`. 
```

> > For example, in order to read alert rules that query datasource `DS1` in a folder `My Folder` the user should have role `fixed:alerting.rules:reader`, permissions to read folder `My Folder` as well as permission to query data source `DS1`.       

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> For example, to read alert rules that query datasource `DS1` in a folder `My Folder`, the user should have the role `fixed:alerting.rules:reader`, permission to read folder `My Folder`, and permission to query data source `DS1`.       
```

| `fixed:annotations:writer`             | `annotations:write` <br>`annotations.create`<br> `annotations:delete` for scope `annotations:type:*`                                                                                                                                                                     | Create, update and delete all annotations and annotation tags.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |

### Alerting roles

> If Grafana Alerting is [enabled]({{< relref "../../alerting/unified-alerting/opt-in.md" >}}), then you can manage user access to alert rules, alert instances and notification settings using predefined roles as well as create custom roles to limit user access to alert rules in a specific folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you [enable]({{< relref "../../alerting/unified-alerting/opt-in.md" >}}) Grafana Alerting, you can use predefined roles to manage user access to alert rules, alert instances, and alert notification settings and create custom roles to limit user access to alert rules in a folder.
```

It is important to understand that the access to Grafana alert rules is an intersection of many permissions:

> - permission to read a folder, i.e. fixed role `fixed:folders:reader` or action `folders:read` in the scope of specific folder `folders:id:`, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Permission to read a folder, for example, the fixed role `fixed:folders:reader` or action `folders:read` in the scope of a folder `folders:id:`
```

> - permission to manage alerts (see table below)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Permission to manage alerts. The following table contains information about alerting fixed roles.
```

> - permission to query **all** data sources that the rule uses, i.e. fixed role `fixed:datasources:reader` or action `datasources:query` in the scope of `datasources:uid:`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Permission to query **all** data sources that the rule uses, for example, the fixed role `fixed:datasources:reader` or action `datasources:query` in the scope of `datasources:uid:`. 
```

> For example of permissions required to access an alert rule see [usage scenarios]({{< relref "./usage-scenarios.md#create-a-custom-role-to-access-alerts-in-a-specific-folder" >}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about about the permissions required to access alert rules, refer to [Create a custom role to access alerts in a folder]({{< relref "./usage-scenarios.md#create-a-custom-role-to-access-alerts-in-a-folder" >}}).
```
